Verfassung für die Bundesrepublik Stutzland





MEINSTADT, den 12 Mai des Jahres Zweitausenddreiunddreißig.








Table of Contents

1 Definition and Principles of the State of Stutzland
1.1 The State of Stutzland
1.2 General Principles
2 Basic Rights
2.1 Common Rights
2.2 Civil Rights
3 Exceptions to Rights Under State of Emergency
3.1 State of Emergency
3.2 Suspendable Rights
4 The Federation and the States
4.1 Distinction of Duties
4.2 The States of Stutzland
5 The Federal Legislation
5.1 The Federal Parliament
5.2 The Federal President
5.3 Parliamentary Elections
5.4 Legislation
6 The Federal Administration
6.1 The Government
6.2 Reichskanzlei
6.3 State Secretaries
7 The Judiciary
7.1 Judiciary Power
7.2 Procurators and the Federal Prosecutor
7.3 State Courts
7.4 The Federal Court
7.5 Reichsgericht
8 Defence and Security
8.1 Reichswehr
8.2 Conscription
8.3 Police
8.4 National Security
8.5 International Security
9 Federal Finance
9.1 Federal Taxation
9.2 Mandatory Expenses of the Federation
9.3 The Annual Budget
9.4 Federal Debt
10 Federal Monetary Regulation
10.1 The Central Bank and the Reichsmark
10.2 Private Banks
11 Diplomatics and Transfer of Powers
11.1 Western Alliance
11.2 Bilateral Relations
11.3 Private Entities
12 Overseas Pronvices and Their Governance
12.1 Reichsprotektorate
12.2 Reichsregionen
12.3 Responsibility of the Federation Over Reichsprotektorate
13 Constitutional Legislation and Its Implementation
13.1 The Old Constitution
13.2 The New Constitution





1 Definition and Principles of the State of Stutzland

1.1 The State of Stutzland

1 §

The Federal Republic of Stutzland is an independent and sovereign 
state founded, controlled, and defined by the German people with 
the right to its territory. Stutzland exists as a German nation 
to protect its people and to provide Die Heimat to all Germans.

2 §

The power and authority to govern Stutzland belong to its people, 
represented by the Parliament, assembled in parliamentary 
sessions. All other administrative entities and subjects of 
Stutzland must have the Parliament's confidence.

3 §

All people born in mainland Stutzland, or people whose both 
parents are Stutzlandian, shall have citizenship. Beside, all 
German nationalities with a direct relative in Stutzland are 
entitled to the right of citizenship.

Based on an evaluation of the responsible office, the citizenship 
of Stutzland may otherwise be given to any individual who:

1. has lived at least ten years in mainland Stutzland

2. speaks:

  (a) German on a confident level

  (b) any branch of the German family of languages fluently

3. has not conducted any substantial or specifically harmful 
  criminal activities

1.2 General Principles

4 §

The administration of Stutzland must heed international law in 
its diplomatic policies. 

5 §

Stutzland exists to protect the lives of its people. The State of 
Stutzland must not conduct activities that pose a threat to the 
security of its people.

6 §

Citizens of Stutzland are responsible for the protection of their 
nation. All citizens above the age of majority must protect their 
homeland when its sovereignty has been threatened.

2 Basic Rights

2.1 Common Rights

7 §

All people, regardless of their nationality, must be treated 
equally under the law regardless of race, gender, color, 
ethnicity, religion, disability, or other characteristics, 
without privilege, discrimination or bias. All are equal before 
the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal 
protection of the law. This shall be named as Right to equality.

8 §

All people, regardless of their nationality, are entitled to the 
right of Self-determination when under the administration of 
Stutzland. Self-determination consists of:

1. the right to leave a nation

2. the right to give up a citizenship

Although, leaving Stutzland requires that the country of 
destination accepts the entering individual. To give up the 
citizenship of Stutzland requires the existence of another 
citizenship.

9 §

All people, regardless of their nationality, are entitled to the 
right of Freedom when under the administration of Stutzland. 
Freedom consists of:

1. the right to do and go as one will

2. the right to sign, establish, or decline a contract

3. the right to choose a profession or education without 
  interference

4. the right to live where one chooses to

5. the right to own one's own assets

6. the right to have one's own opinion and the freedom of though, 
  expression and conscience

7. the right to self-defence

10 §

All people, regardless of their nationality, are entitled to the 
right of Due process of law when under the administration of 
Stutzland. Due process of law is application by the state of all 
legal rules and principles pertaining to a case so all legal 
rights that are owed to a person are respected.

11 §

All people, regardless of their nationality, are entitled to 
Right to privacy when under the administration of Stutzland. 
Right to privacy consists of:

1. the right to keep one's own:

  (a) information,

  (b) location,

  (c) name,

  (d) assets,

  (e) or dignity, as respected or private.

2. the right to have one's letters and other sent messages, and 
  their correspondence as secret.

2.2 Civil Rights

12 §

All citizens are entitled to the right of Assembly, free 
religion, and association. Any citizen within the borders of 
Stutzland may join or leave a group or association, be it 
religious or not, and to found one without interference. Citizens 
of Stutzland shall be able to gather and assemble publicly 
without interference.

13 §

All citizens are entitled to the right to petition. The 
administration of Stutzland shall provide means of receiving 
complaints. The Federal Parliament shall provide means of 
influencing legislation to all citizens.

14 §

All citizens above the age of majority shall have the right to 
vote in federal elections. Citizens as members of the States of 
Stutzland shall have the right to vote on matters considering the 
State they have been living in for the most time during the past 
year.

15 §

All citizens regardless of age have the right to receive 
healthcare, and help when they are in danger. Even if a citizen 
is outside the territory of Stutzland when needing healthcare, 
they still retain the right.

16 §

All citizens above the age of majority, who engage in paying 
taxes from their personal income, are entitled to the right to 
receive federal pension after living past the working age.

3 Exceptions to Rights Under State of Emergency

3.1 State of Emergency

17 §

The Parliament may suspend civil rights for a temporary amount of 
time with a qualified majority of 2/3 cast votes. The time of 
suspended civil rights may not exceed a month in duration and the 
Parliament must be informed of all possible civil right denials 
during the period, which shall be called and proposed as 
Exceptional Circumstances.

The State of Emergency can be declared as an extension of 
Exceptional Circumstances or immediately on its known. The 
declaration of State of Emergency requires a qualified majority 
of 3/4 cast votes.

18 §

Any existing political opposition has the right to have a 
representative in the Federal Government during the period. This 
representative has to be able to attend cabinet sessions and 
classified documents, unless otherwise is decreed in an act in 
the name of state security.

3.2 Suspendable Rights

19 §

During a State of Emergency, all common rights except for Due 
process of law and Right to equality may be suspended, and even 
then only partially. To suspend all common rights and in their 
totally, an uncontested support of the Parliament is required. 
This act must not exceed two months in duration, but may be 
renewed with a similar uncontested support of the Parliament.

20 §

All violations of basic rights during a State of Emergency must 
be reported to a responsible official for evaluation. Reasonable 
compensation must be provided monetarily or as an asset that can 
be converted into a currency.

4 The Federation and the States

4.1 Distinction of Duties

21 §

Stutzland is a federal republic, thus consisting of 
semi-independent States. These States shall be proclaimed by 
their own people and confirmed in federal law. Federal 
authorities are responsible for foreign politics, and nationwide 
legislation and administration that can be implemented without 
regional interferences or conflictions. Authorities of the States 
are responsible for implementations of federal policies.

22 §

The States shall have the exclusive autonomy to implement federal 
policies in their own regional context. The States shall also 
have the right to pass their own decrees, as long as they do not 
conflict with federal directives or laws. If legislative conflict 
is noticed, the Federal Parliament shall decide the overruling 
order.

23 §

Recognising the diverse needs and regional dynamics within the 
State of Stutzland, this constitution upholds the principle of 
state autonomy. The specific mechanisms, powers, and 
collaborative frameworks related to state representation and 
autonomy shall be further defined in a separate law, enacted in 
conjunction with the Federal Parliament and respective State 
Parliaments. This law shall establish the parameters for the 
relationship between the federal and state authorities, ensuring 
a balance between centralised governance and regional autonomy in 
accordance with constitutional principles.

4.2 The States of Stutzland

24 §

Stutzland consists of the following States which together form 
the federation:

1. Brandenburg

2. Hamburg

3. Nordrhein

4. Bergetal

5. Böhmen-Bayern

6. Ostland

7. Ostpreußen

8. Wartheland

The States of Stutzland shall be further defined in a separate 
law, enacted in conjunction with the Federal Parliament and 
respective State Parliaments.

5 The Federal Legislation

5.1 The Federal Parliament

25 §

The Federal Parliament represents the Parliament as defined in § 
1 and can be referred to simply as the Parliament. All 
legislative power belong to it and its subsidiaries. The 
Parliament consists of at least forty, but no more than one 
hundred members. The amount of members shall be decreed in a law 
for each term. The Parliament assembles at least once a week, but 
may have two months in a year as furlough, either together or 
separately.

The Federal Parliament makes decisions based on absolute 
majority.

26 §

The German people are represented by political parties in the 
Parliament. Any citizen of Stutzland shall be able to found a 
party, as long as at least fifty supporting signatures are 
collected. If a political party fails to secure any parliamentary 
seats within two years from the time of signature collection or 
the last elections, the party is required to gather fifty new 
signatures.

27 §

The Federal Parliament forms committees from its members to 
process specific affairs and law proposals.

Members of the Federal Government, and the Federal President may 
not participate in committees. All seats in committees shall be 
shared between political parties in relation to their total 
parliamentary seats. The allocation of committee chairmanships is 
distinct from committee memberships. The largest party is 
entitled to choose the first chairmanship, followed in sequence 
by the second-largest party and subsequent parties.

28 §

Members of the Federal Parliament are entitled to a compensation 
that shall not exceed the compensation granted to the Federal 
President. Additionally, members of the Parliament may utilize 
taxi, flight, or public transportation services at the expense of 
the federation, provided that the incurred expenses are 
appropriately documented. For reimbursement by the federation, 
these bills must not be older than one year. Compensations and 
benefits shall be be further defined in a separate law.

5.2 The Federal President

29 §

The Federal President, elected from among the members of 
parliament, coordinates and manages all activities and actions of 
the parliament and acts as its chairman. The President holds his 
or her position throughout the entire parliamentary term, unless 
re-elected due to a vote of no confidence. The Federal President 
has the right to attend government sessions.

The President is responsible for suggesting yearly timetables for 
parliamentary adherence, having consulted the existing government 
regarding their proposed schedule for the term. The President 
shall issue statement turns during parliamentary sessions based 
on enrollment order. Government members are to be afforded 
opportunities to respond to others' statements but shall not be 
granted independent turns.

30 §

The Federal President is eligible for fair compensation for their 
services from the federal state. Additionally, the President is 
entitled to a designated chauffeur, a car benefit, and an 
official residence, all provided and owned by the federal state 
on a tax-free basis. These privileges are applicable solely 
during the president's tenure in office. Compensations and 
benefits shall be be further defined in a separate law.

5.3 Parliamentary Elections

31 §

The members of the Federal Parliament are elected for one term at 
a time. One term shall last two years. All citizens of Stutzland 
above the age of majority form the electorate. Voting must be 
open for at least one full day of 24 hours, but no more than 
seven days.

Any citizen of Stutzland must have the chance to become a 
candidate in parliamentary elections. There shall be no 
restrictions on who can become a candidate. After being elected, 
candidates must either join an existing party or establish a 
legitimate party within six months. If a member of parliament 
fails to do so, they will forfeit their seat to the candidate 
with the next highest number of votes.

32 §

Parliamentary elections must be held within a month after the 
last term has expired. Parliamentary elections can be held 
prematurely, if the government fails to have the parliament's 
confidence. In that case, the elections must be held within two 
weeks after the government has been dissolved.

5.4 Legislation

33 §

All authority and administration in Stutzland must be based on 
laws passed by the Federal Parliament. Laws can be proposed by 
the Federal Government, a single member of the Federal 
Parliament, State Parliaments, or by the people of Stutzland 
through an official legal initiative. A legal initiative requires 
at least five hundred signatures from citizens that are allowed 
to vote. All laws must follow the constitution and in case of a 
conflict, the constitutional point of view shall be followed.

34 §

A legitimate law proposal must be approved by the Federal 
Parliament. The Parliament shall then process the proposal in an 
appropriate committee. The committee shall submit a report to a 
general session of the Parliament, in which the committee must 
present the proposal in the form of a conventional law. The 
Parliament shall then decide, if the report can be processed 
further.

If the Federal Parliament decides to approve the initial report 
from the select committee, the report shall be reviewed by 
another committee to comply with the existing constitution and 
jurisdiction. The commitee shall submit a final report to a 
general session of the Parliament, in which the Commitee must 
present the final law. The Parliament shall vote on the final 
law.

The Federal Government can delay the execution of any new law for 
one year at most.

35 §

The Federal Parliament makes decisions based on absolute 
majority. All laws must be approved by the Federal Parliament. 
Directives that do not originate from existing laws must also be 
approved by the Parliament.

6 The Federal Administration

6.1 The Government

36 §

The Federal Government of Stutzland wields executive power. A 
cabinet of ministers and the Reichskanzler are elected and 
authorised by the Federal Parliament to fill the office of the 
Federal Government, which must enjoy the Parliament's confidence 
at all times.

37 §

The Government has the exclusive right to issue directives that 
are binding to all authorities except for the Federal Parliament. 
Directives can be issued by the incumbent cabinet as whole, or by 
individual ministries, and the Reichskanzler.

Directives can be derived from existing legislation in a juridic 
sense, or from explicit statements in laws. Directives must be in 
line with existing legislation and they must be approved by the 
Federal Parliament, if any State Parliament officially complains 
of them.

38 §

The Federal Government shall be provided designated premises to 
work and assemble at. All members of the incumbent cabinet are 
entitled to free transportation, digital and office accessories 
and a reasonable compensation for their work, provided by the 
federation. Compensations and benefits shall be be further 
defined in a separate law.

39 §

A cabinet must consist of at least four but no more than fourteen 
ministers, excluding the Reichskanzler. The Federal Government 
consists of ministries that the corresponding ministers are 
supervisors of. If two or more ministers are assigned to a single 
ministry, the Reichskanzler shall decide the hierarchy.

Besides Reichskanzlei, there shall be three permanent ministries, 
the Ministry of Finances, Ministry of Security and Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs. They shall be supervised by corresponding 
ministers further defined in a separate law.

6.2 Reichskanzlei

40 §

The Reichskanzlei is a permanent superior office of the Federal 
Government. Reichskanzler, elected by the Parliament, is the 
chairman of the incumbent cabinet and the supervisor of both the 
Reichskanzlei and the Government. Reichskanzler shall also be 
named as the Head of State of Stutzland.

Reichskanzlei shall be provided with designated premises to work 
and assemble at. Reichskanzler is entitled to a reasonable 
compensation equal to that of the Federal President's. 
Reichskanzler is also entitled to a tax-free chauffeur and car 
benefit, besides an official residence free of charge. 
Compensations and benefits shall be be further defined in a 
separate law.

41 §

Directives issued by the Reichskanzlei are to be considered 
superior to other ministries' directives. Directives issued by 
the Reichskanzlei are also to be considered representing the 
Government as whole.

The Reichskanzlei is responsible for suggesting yearly timetables 
for governmental adherence, having consulted other ministries 
regarding their proposed schedule for the term.

42 §

If the Reichskanzler loses the confidence of the Federal 
Parliament, they must resign from the position. However, the 
Reichskanzler has the option to continue in office temporarily as 
the Ministerkanzler, leading a caretaker government. During this 
period, any directives issued by the caretaker government require 
approval from the Federal Parliament.

6.3 State Secretaries

43 §

To advance government policies, State Secretaries may be 
appointed and assigned to ministries by the incumbent cabinet. 
State Secretaries are to be considered members of the Federal 
Government. The amount of offices of State Secretaries must not 
exceed double the amount of ministers.

All State Secretaries are entitled to the right to attend 
government meetings. Only State Secretaries assigned to 
Reichskanzlei may attend cabinet meetings, when separate from 
government meetings.

44 §

All State Secretaries are entitled to a compensation provided by 
the federation. This compensation shall not exceed the 
compensation granted to an elected member of the Parliament. 
State Secretaries assigned to Reichskanzlei may utilize taxi, 
flight, or public transportation services at the expense of the 
federation, provided that the incurred expenses are appropriately 
documented. For reimbursement by the federation, these bills must 
not be older than one year. Compensations and benefits shall be 
be further defined in a separate law.

7 The Judiciary

7.1 Judiciary Power

45 §

The exercise of judiciary power is exclusively reserved for the 
judiciary branch. Neither the Federal Government, Parliament, nor 
any other executive or legislative body may utilize judiciary 
power, including the imposition of sanctions for law violations. 
Judiciary power must remain separate and independent, with all 
sanctions stemming from legislated reasons.

46 §

The initiation of an investigation, prosecution, or judgment is 
vested solely in professional experts of the law. The entity 
conducting an investigation may not be the same as the one 
responsible for prosecution. To ensure impartiality at the 
federal level, independent federal prosecutors are entrusted with 
advancing investigations reported by federal investigative 
offices. At the State level, State Procurators are empowered to 
initiate investigations and prosecute the suspects in question.

47 §

Access to the education required for individuals to act as 
professional legal experts must be accessible to all citizens. 
The authority to judge or prosecute arises from the collective 
will of the people and is to be revered accordingly.

48 §

A comprehensive criminal law shall be enacted to delineate a 
register of criminal offenses for which prosecution and judgment 
are permissible. Additionally, it shall define general criminal 
proceedings to address other instances of offenses and breaches 
of the law. No official judgment or sanction lacking a foundation 
in the law may be issued.

7.2 Procurators and the Federal Prosecutor

49 §

The Federal Prosecutor, comprising both an office and an 
appointed official, is tasked with prosecuting individuals 
suspected of federal crimes. The impetus for prosecution must 
originate from either federal investigations or an appeal from a 
State Court.

The Federal Prosecutor is nominated by the Federal President and 
serves a term of four years. Consecutive terms are permissible, 
limited to two at most.

50 §

The State Procurator, encompassing both an office and an 
appointed official, operates independently in each State. They 
possess the authority to initiate investigations and prosecute 
individuals for crimes and other offenses. Procurators may either 
commence and conduct an investigation independently or issue a 
prosecution based on a police-conducted investigation.

State Procurators are nominated by the Federal President and must 
have resided in the respective State for at least two years at 
the time of nomination. They are also required to maintain 
residence in their responsible State throughout their tenure. 
State Procurators may hold their office for four years, with 
consecutive terms limited to two at most.

51 §

The Federal Procurator is an official nominated by the Federal 
President, tasked explicitly with conducting investigations and 
prosecutions in cases deemed crucial to the security of the 
Federal State. The Procurator may initiate investigations and 
prosecutions only with classified permission from the Federal 
Parliament.

7.3 State Courts

52 §

Within each state, a dedicated State Court is responsible for 
hearing and adjudicating cases arising within its jurisdiction. 
These State Courts operate independently of each other.

Jurisdictionally, State Courts handle cases specific to their 
respective states. Judges of State Courts are appointed by the 
respective State Parliaments and hold their positions for defined 
terms, ensuring regular assessments of performance. Upon 
completion of a term, judges may be reappointed based on their 
record of service.

53 §

Clear and standardized procedures for trials and legal 
proceedings shall be established, with additional procedural laws 
allowed by the constitution to govern court processes.

A comprehensive system of appeals and review shall be established 
to ensure the fair examination of legal issues.

7.4 The Federal Court

54 §

The Federal Court is the sole federal-level court responsible for 
processing cases originating within each state. It serves as the 
first level of appeal for State Courts.

The appointment of federal judges follows a merit-based process, 
with nominees selected by the Federal President and confirmed by 
the Federal Parliament.

Judges hold their positions for defined terms, ensuring regular 
assessments of performance. Upon completion of a term, judges may 
be reappointed based on their record of service.

55 §

Judicial independence is a fundamental principle to guarantee 
impartial administration of justice. Judges, at both state and 
federal levels, must possess the necessary legal qualifications 
and expertise.

7.5 Reichsgericht

56 §

The Reichsgericht, functioning as the Supreme Court, is 
positioned at the apex of the federal judicial system. It 
processes appeals from the Federal Court and deals with 
prosecutions involving federal officials, such as members of the 
government or the parliament.

The Reichsgericht ensures a unified judicial structure for the 
entire nation, handling appeals and prosecutions at the federal 
level.

57 §

Judges of the Reichsgericht are appointed based on merit, 
nominated by the Federal President, and confirmed by the Federal 
Parliament.

Judges hold their positions for defined terms, ensuring regular 
assessments of performance. Upon completion of a term, judges may 
be reappointed based on their record of service.

58 §

A comprehensive system of appeals and review shall be established 
to ensure the fair examination of legal issues. The Reichsgericht 
may serve as the court of last resort for matters that require 
final adjudication.

8 Defence and Security

8.1 Reichswehr

59 §

The Federal Republic of Stutzland is protected by its armed 
forces, the Reichswehr, which operates directly under the 
authority of the Federal Government. The deployment of Reichswehr 
into military action thay may result in human casualties shall 
require the approval of the Federal Parliament.

Reichswehr may use executive power within its own organisation, 
as an extension of the executive power held by the Federal 
Government. Reichswehr may independently administrate regions 
that it occupies or controls, as long as the administration 
follows the federal law of Stutzland and is approved by the 
Federal Government.

60 §

Reichswehr consists of two regional branches, the Heimwehr and 
Auslandswehr. Heimwehr operates in regions not considered part of 
overseas territories, unless otherwise decreed. Auslandswehr 
operates explicitly in overseas territories.

Heimwehr consists further of three branches: the Landswehr, 
Marinenmacht and Luftwaffe. Landswehr is responsible for the 
armed forces deployed on land, Marinenmacht is responsible for 
the armed forces operating on seas, and Luftwaffe is responsible 
for the armed forces operating in the airspace. Landswehr can be 
further referred to as the Army, Marinenmacht as the Navy, and 
Luftwaffe as the Airforces.

61 §

The leaders of the Reichswehr, Heimwehr, Auslandswehr, Landswehr, 
Marinenmacht, and Luftwaffe collectively form the apex of the 
military command, known as the High Command. Within this 
hierarchy, the commanders of the Reichswehr, Heimwehr, and 
Auslandswehr hold dual roles as members of the Federal 
Government. The commander of the Reichswehr is accorded a status 
equivalent to that of a minister, while the commanders of the 
Heimwehr and Auslandswehr are recognized as equivalent to State 
Secretaries.

To further delineate the responsibilities and authority of the 
Reichswehr, a distinct and comprehensive legal framework shall be 
established. This separate law should provide the essential 
powers and rights for the Reichswehr to fulfill its distinctive 
and executive purpose in safeguarding Stutzland's security and 
interests.

8.2 Conscription

62 §

All men above the age of majority have the duty and 
responsibility to join the Reichswehr when mandated by the 
Federal State. Refusing to join the armed forces when compelled 
shall be decreed criminal and must result in sanctions.

63 §

Exceptions to the mandatory conscription may be made for reasons 
relating to health and safety. Reichswehr is responsible for 
arranging any instance of conscription.

A conscript shall have at least one month of time to arrange his 
civil life. After this period of time has passed, he must enlist 
to the nearest military office. Conscripts must be informed 
beforehand of their stationing and role.

64 §

Male dual citizens above the age of majority, living permanently 
in Stutzland, are to be considered equivalent to single 
citizenship conscripts.

8.3 Police

65 §

Federal police is the organisation and authority that ensures 
public order and security. Criminal investigation of federal 
crimes shall be carried out by the federal police, as well as 
imprisonment and detention. The federal police may use executive 
power as an extension of the power used by the Federal 
Government, for which the federal police is also responsible to.

The federal police is commanded by Chief Federal Inspector, 
appointed by the Federal President. The Inspector must have prior 
experience in the police and good knowledge of law.

66 §

Federal police officers must be trained in use of force and 
knowledge of law. All actions of the federal police must have a 
foundation in law. A comprehensive police law shall be enacted 
further to define the organisation and actions of the federal 
police.

67 §

State police is the organisation and authority that ensures 
public order and security regionally. Each State shall have their 
own police force, all of which are subordinate to the federal 
police. Each State Parliament shall appoint Chief State Inspector 
to command their police forces.

State police shall be regulated under the same law as the federal 
police.

8.4 National Security

68 §

Bundesamt für Sicherheit und Einsatzdienste, abbreviated as 
BASED, is the apex security organisation and authority, primarily 
responsible for national security. BASED shall be directly under 
the control of the Federal Government.

BASED is authorised to conduct operations withheld from the 
public, but not from the cabinet of the Federal Government. BASED 
may conduct operations intended to gather intelligence and to 
supervise national or international targets deemed important to 
be followed for national security reasons.

BASED is commanded by Secretary of Intelligence, who shall be a 
member of the Government. All officials of BASED must have prior 
staff experience in either the military or the federal police.

69 §

Information processed by any administrative body must be properly 
classified. There shall be three levels of classification: top 
secret, secret and confidential. Any classified information may 
be accessed only when necessary, on a need-to-know basis.

Confidential information can be accessed by all authorities when 
dealing with persons or entities related to that information. 
Confidential information may not be publicly available without a 
permission from the authority that created or first reported the 
information, unless otherwise restricted to be accessible to 
authorities only.

Secret information can be accessed by members of the Federal 
Government and the Federal Parliament. A security clearance 
issued by BASED shall be required to obtain secret information 
for extended use, rather than just viewing. Reichskanzler, 
ministers, and the top officials of BASED are automatically 
entitled to a security clearance.

Top secret information can be accessed by the members of the 
cabinet within the Federal Government, the Federal President and 
the top officials of BASED. A security clearance issued by BASED 
shall be required to even view top secret information. The 
Federal President and select members of the Government, including 
the commander of Reichswehr, are eligible for a security 
clearance, if deemed essential by BASED or the cabinet.

70 §

A comprehensive intelligence law shall be enacted further to 
define the organisation and actions of BASED, and the handling of 
classified information.

8.5 International Security

71 §

As part of the Western Alliance, it is essential that Stutzland 
shares classified information with its allies internationally. 
Top secret information may be shared to extranational authorities 
only in case of corresponding levels of classification and 
security clearances.

72 §

Stutzland may use military force against other nations, if it is 
deemed essential to the national security of the Federal 
Republic, or essential for keeping a peaceful diplomatic state of 
relations in a region, or essential to protect the most 
definitive principles of the constitution.

9 Federal Finance

9.1 Federal Taxation

73 §

The Federal Government of Stutzland has the exclusive right to 
issue taxes that bind all private entities residing within the 
national economic region of Stutzland. Taxes shall be collected 
by the Treasury of Federal Revenue, abbreviated as TEFER or the 
Treasury, which shall be given the necessary executive rights to 
keep record of all taxable subjects.

To collect taxes, a Federal Income Register shall be established. 
Any income or revenue earned by taxable subjects, including legal 
and natural persons, must be reported to the register, which 
shall be directly managed by the Ministry of Finances.

74 §

The Federal State may only collect taxes described in law. 
Collection of taxes may be authorised with directives, as long as 
the directives directly reference the law in which the 
collectable tax is described.

All taxable subjects must be offered a chance to appeal decisions 
made of their taxation. Appeals shall be processed according to 
conventional judiciary processes.

75 §

International legal and natural persons become taxable subjects 
in Stutzland, if they generate revenue or income within the 
national economic region of Stutzland.

Taxing officials of the Western Alliance are eligible to gain 
access to the Federal Income Register, if there are common 
taxable subjects between them and TEFER.

9.2 Mandatory Expenses of the Federation

76 §

According to the civil rights of this constitution, all citizens 
of Stutzland are entitled to receive healthcare and federal 
pensions under their specific conditions mentioned in the rights 
and in separate laws further defining healthcare and the pension 
system. Organising fundamental healthcare and providing federal 
pensions as regulated shall be mandatory expenses that shall be 
financed annually.

77 §

Organising the administration, legislation and jurisdiction of 
the Federal State requires financing that shall be mandatory for 
the federation to arrange annually.

78 §

Enforcing the sovereignty of Stutzland is materialised in the use 
and establishment of Reichswehr, which requires financing that 
shall be mandatory for the federation to arrange annually.

9.3 The Annual Budget

79 §

Revenue generated by the Federal State shall be used to finance 
all mandatory expenses mentioned in this constitution. The 
intended expenditure consists of all mandatory expenses and 
additional expenses proposed by the Federal Government. The 
expected revenue consists of predicted tax income and other types 
of income earned by the Federal Government.

The intended expenditure and the expected revenue together shall 
be presented to the Federal Parliament annually, at least two 
months before the end of year, but no earlier than six months 
after the beginning of the year. The final proposal of balancing 
the finances of the federation shall be transcribed into a 
national annual budget.

A national annual budget will come into force on the first day of 
its designated year, and it shall expire at the end of year. 
Besides the national annual budget, unbinding plans for financial 
policies can be made by the Government to cover several years. 
These plans do not have to expire according to any national 
annual budget.

80 §

The national annual budget is comparable to a conventional 
federal law and shall be treated as such. Thus, the Federal 
Parliament has the exclusive right to approve of or reject the 
budget. If no other budget can be approved of, the original 
proposed budget shall come into force, excluding for expenses not 
described as mandatory.

81 §

A supplementary budget can be proposed by the Federal Government. 
It can be used to either supplement or completely replace the 
original annual budget. A supplementary budget shall be processed 
as if it was a regular annual budget, and it shall expire at the 
end of year, even if it was introduced in the middle of the year.

9.4 Federal Debt

82 §

In case of not achieving a balanced national annual budget, the 
Federal Government can propose borrowing funds from monetary 
markets. In case of having to issue substantial amount of debt, 
the Federal Parliament may appoint a federal debt manager.

Debt may be issued only from private banks. Borrowing funds from 
a national state-owned bank shall be explicitly forbidden and 
such debts must be considered illegitimate.

83 §

The authority to issue long-term debt obligations, with repayment 
dates set at a minimum of two years from the date of issuance, is 
vested in the Ministry of Finances. Conversely, shorter-term 
promissory notes, including treasury bills, may be issued by the 
Reichskanzlei, provided that the repayment period does not extend 
beyond one year from the date of issuance.

10 Federal Monetary Regulation

10.1 The Central Bank and the Reichsmark

84 §

The exclusive and recognized currency within the economic region 
of the Federal State is the Reichsmark, denoted as RM or rm. This 
currency is valid in both physical forms, such as official 
banknotes and coins, and in virtual numeric assets.

Counterfeiting Reichsmarks shall be deemed a federal crime, 
subject to legal consequences. The issuance of new currency and 
the establishment of distinctive currency traits are entrusted 
solely to the central bank.

85 §

Reichsbank, serving as the central bank of Stutzland, is mandated 
with ensuring both price and financial stability within the 
nation. It holds the exclusive authority to control and regulate 
the Reichsmark, devoid of interference from the Federal 
Government, which is limited to providing the bank with capital. 
The Federal President appoints a Reichsbankier, who serves a 
single five-year term, to oversee the bank's operations. The 
Ministry of Finances maintains a representative within the bank 
to facilitate seamless coordination of economic policies.

86 §

Reichsbank wields the exclusive and independent authority to 
control interest rates through a designated key interest rate. 
Additionally, the bank may regulate monetary markets as a whole 
by imposing reserve requirements, within the bounds of existing 
legislation.

The oversight and regulation of foreign exchange, along with 
associated reserves, fall under the purview of Reichsbank. 
Notably, the bank is prohibited from deriving profit through the 
exchange of foreign currency and the provision of related 
services to private banks.

87 §

Reichsbank and Reichsmark shall be further defined in a separate 
law.

10.2 Private Banks

88 §

To found a private bank, one million Reichsmarks shall be 
required as debtless liquid capital. All private banks must be 
licensed and legally recognised. A private bank may only be 
founded through a permissive directive from the Ministry of 
Finances.

89 §

The Federal State shall provide insurance covering a minimum of 
one million Reichsmarks for deposits in the event of a private 
bank facing asset insufficiency. Banks are obligated to furnish 
their own deposit insurance policies, ensuring a minimum coverage 
of one million Reichsmarks.

Consumers are entitled to have a minimum of ten thousand 
Reichsmarks insured and safeguarded by the Federal State in 
instances where a bank cannot fulfill deposit obligations. In 
such circumstances, these assets shall be disbursed as a debt if 
the bank is unable to repay the Federal State within a one-year 
period.

90 §

Private banks shall fall under the scrutiny of Reichsbank. 
Cartels, monopolies and oligopolies shall be explicitly forbbiden 
and deemed as punishable federal crimes. They shall be further 
regulated in a separate law.

11 Diplomatics and Transfer of Powers

11.1 Western Alliance

91 §

Beginning from 20th of June 2074, Stutzland is part of the 
Western Alliance. The charter of the Alliance has been signed and 
it is binding for Stutzland. Thus, all legislation and executive 
power must conform to standars of the Alliance.

Stutzland has joined the Western Alliance to secure its own 
sovereignty from possible foreign threats. This principle is the 
key motive of joining the Alliance. The membership becomes 
nullified as soon as this motive ceases to exist.

92 §

The Stutzlandian representatives in the Assembly of Policies, as 
defined in the charter, shall be elected in the same manner and 
with the same conditions as members of the Federal Parliament. 
These elections to the Assembly of Policies are to be held every 
second year.

93 §

Reichskanzler and the minister supervising the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs shall be the representatives in the Executive 
Cabinet of the Alliance, as defined in the charter.

94 §

The commanders of Reichswehr, Heimwehr, and Auslandswehr shall be 
the representatives in the Military Council of the Alliance, as 
defined in the charter.

11.2 Bilateral Relations

95 §

The Federal Government may establish bilateral relations between 
Stutzland and other nations in the form of agreements such as 
treaties and trade deals, as long as they are ratified by the 
other nation as well as the Federal Parliament.

Treaties and trade deals signed by the Federal Government must be 
in accordance to the existing federal legislation. If not, then 
the agreement in question becomes immediately nullified.

96 §

Bilateral relations between Stutzland and other nations must not 
be in conflict with the policies of the Western Alliance. 
International agreements made outside the Western Alliance, with 
Stutzland as one of the primary parties, are to be considered 
illicit and immediately nullified.

97 §

The Federal Government of Stutzland may not sign any agreements 
that pose a threat to the sovereignty of Stutzland, except for 
agreements made with or for the Western Alliance. These 
agreements that are made with the Alliance in mind can be 
considered legal and binding if they serve the sovereignty of 
Stutzland in the long term.

11.3 Private Entities

98 §

Public authority may not be used by any private entity, such as a 
company or a corresponding legal person. Administrative duties 
may be transferred only to other public authorities, and even 
then only in accordance to the existing legislation.

99 §

Private entities excercising public authority, when specifically 
forbidden, shall be tried for conducting a punishable federal 
crime as described in the criminal law.

12 Overseas Pronvices and Their Governance

12.1 Reichsprotektorate

100 §

Besides States, the Federal State may also govern other regions. 
Reichsprotektorate are overseas regions that require the federal 
protection of Stutzland due to cultural and economic reasons, and 
which have been granted this protection by the Federal 
parliament.

101 §

The Federal State may not restrict the sovereignty of 
Reichsprotektorate beyond what is considered reasonable by the 
Federal Parliament. A law shall be crafted for each 
Reichsprotektorat to define their independency, administration, 
and rights.

12.2 Reichsregionen

102 §

Reichsregionen are regions under the control and administration 
of the Federal State, that can not be recognised as States or 
Reichsprotektorate. Reichsregionen are administrated by the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Reichswehr, in accordance to the 
existing legislation.

103 §

The Federal State may not restrict the sovereignty of 
Reichsregionen beyond waht is considered reasonable by the 
Federal Parliament. A law shall be crafted for each Reichsregion 
to define their borders and administration.

12.3 Responsibility of the Federation Over Reichsprotektorate

104 §

As an exception to §§ of Chapter 2 in this constitution, the 
State of Emergency may be declared in a Reichsprotektorat with 
the support from an absolute majority of the Federal Parliament. 
Under such decision, the executive rights of the Federal 
Government may be transferred to Auslandswehr with the unilateral 
declaration from the incumbent cabinet.

105 §

Auslandswehr is responsible for the execution and implementation 
of federal law in Reichsprotektorate during a State of Emergency. 
During normal conditions, this responsibility resides by the 
Federal Government.

13 Constitutional Legislation and Its Implementation

13.1 The Old Constitution

106 §

The old constitution, which was used starting from the year 2002, 
shall become nullified when this new constitution is ratified.

107 §

Laws based on the old constitution continue to be part of the 
existing legislation, except for the parts that are explicitly 
conflicting with the new constitution.

13.2 The New Constitution

108 §

The new consitution equals this particular constitution and comes 
into force immediately after being approved by the Federal 
Parliament and signed by the Federal President.

109 §

The Federal Parliament shall begin legislating all the laws that 
ordered to be decreed by this constitution, as soon as the 
existing schedule allows. The Federal President must take care of 
the legislative process finishing in a reasonably expected 
timeframe.

110 §

This constitution can only be changed with a qualified majority 
of 3/4 votes from the Federal Parliament. The initiative to 
change this constitution must stem from a proposal introduced by 
the Federal Government or a State Parliament.

