Association Act






-------------------------------------------


Date of Legislation: 27/01/2035

Votes to Approve: 26 - 15

Date of Enforcement: 01/07/2035


-------------------------------------------


Contents

1. General rules

  (a) 1 § - Scope of the law

  (b) 2 § - Restrictions

  (c) 3 § - Finance

2. Establishment

  (a) 4 § - Charter

  (b) 5 § - Registration

3. Membership

  (a) 6 § - Members

  (b) 7 § - Member registry

  (c) 8 § - Acquiring membership

  (d) 9 § - Denouncing membership

4. Authority

  (a) 10 § - Decision making

  (b) 11 § - Access to decision making

  (c) 12 § - Election of board members

  (d) 13 § - Board proposals

5. Dissolution

  (a) 14 § - Dissolving an association

  (b) 15 § - Legal existence

6. Status and liability

  (a) 16 § - The status of an association

  (b) 17 § - Liability to pay damages




1 General rules

  1 § - Scope of the law

In accordance to Verfassung § 12, an association can be 
established by a citizen to promote a shared specific idea. An 
association shall not be against the law or good manners.

Any association is subject to this law.

  2 § - Restrictions

This law shall not be applied if the association is intended to 
generate profit or other corresponding economic benefit for its 
members, or if the idea of the association is economic in general 
sense.

Any association that intends to form a hierarchy of groups within 
itself, or that intends to arm its members for paramilitary 
means, is prohibited. An association related to firearms or the 
possession of other dangerous objects and substances, shall 
require an approval from the Federal Court.

An association must have a name that is in accordance to good 
manners and does not infringe copyrighted names of other 
organisations.

Members of an association are not personally responsible for the 
association. However, if a board member of the association causes 
damages to the association through their actions, the association 
can demand them to cover the damages.

  3 § - Finance

An association may generate revenue only in ways that are defined 
to serve the idea of the association. All generated revenue shall 
be considered as assets of the association and may not be given 
for personal use to any member of the association.

2 Establishment

  4 § - Charter

An association is established with a charter which defines 
membership, financing, intentions and founding. Charter must be 
signed by at least two founding members and it must be verified 
by the State Court. Charter shall not be classified in any way.

  5 § - Registration

All associations shall be registered in State Courts. 
Registration requires a legal and applicable charter, the 
presence of at least two founding members and a witness. In 
conjunction with the registration, a financial secretary must be 
named for the association to hold its account.

Registration can require a fee, but it must not exceed 100 €.

3 Membership

  6 § - Members

Prerequisites of the membership of an association shall be 
defined in the association's charter. Membership recuirements 
must be in accordance to law and no one shall be discriminated 
when processing applications for membership.

An association shall have the right to denounce any member's 
membership in the association, if the reasons have been defined 
in the charter. In other instances, a member must be warned at 
least a week before the end of their membership.

  7 § - Member registry

An association must keep a registry of its members, including 
their legal names and identification codes. The registry must be 
verified by the State Court and it must be handled 
confidentially.

In accordance to Verfassung § 69, the member registry shall be 
held by the State Court. The association must inform the court of 
any new members, so that they may be added to the registry. The 
association shall be required to destroy any own reports of 
individual members' identification codes.

  8 § - Acquiring membership

All natural persons with citizenship and native legal persons 
living or operating in the State in which an association was 
founded, shall be granted the right to apply for membership in 
the association. Acceptance of new members must be based on legal 
reasons.

A citizen from another State shall be able to apply for the 
membership of an association, if the association has allowed this 
in their charter. State citizenship can be verified by the State 
Court and then reported to the association, without including 
sensitive and specifically accurate information of location or 
address.

Membership can be made subject to payment. The payment interval 
and amount can be defined in the charter and it must be the same 
for all members. If a member continuously fails to pay for their 
membership, or has not paid for it within the last two months, 
the association can denounce the membership with a one-sided 
notice.

  9 § - Denouncing membership

A member may denounce their membership themselves. An association 
may denounce the membership of one their members for reasons 
defined in § 8, or if the member has commited a crime that is 
especially harmful for the association or its reputation.

If the reason for denouncing a membership by the association is 
not financial, a notice of the denounciation must be submitted to 
the member in two weeks before it becomes valid.

A person whose membership has been denounced by the association 
can apply for new membership in no earlier than a year, unless 
otherwise stated in the association's charter or another relevant 
document.

4 Authority

  10 § - Decision making

An association may define its intentions, ideas, purposes, and 
other actions in decisions issue with the collective authority of 
its members.

All members of the association shall have the right to vote on 
decisions in meetings held at least twice a year. Decisions are 
binding when at least half of all members are present in the 
meeting and when the decision has receive an absolute majority of 
votes.

The members of an association shall choose a board among 
themselves. The board shall have three permanent seats:

• treasurer; to access and manage the association's assets.

• bookkeeper; to access and manage the association's documents.

• chairman; to organise meetings and the operation of the 
  association.

Other members of the board can be named in the charter. The board 
may not have more seats than half the amount of members, unless 
the amount of members is under six persons.

  11 § - Access to decision making

All members of an association must be sent a notice of an 
upcoming meeting at least a week before the meeting takes place. 
A list of affairs to be voted on must be included. The right to 
vote can be transferred to a representative within the 
association, if the representative is informed of voting 
decisions that are to be taken as a representative.

  12 § - Election of board members

Members of the board of an association must be elected in a 
meeting. Elections must be held at least every other year. 
Members of the board must be members of the association and not 
under the notice of denouncement of their membership.

  13 § - Board proposals

The board of an association shall have the decide which affairs 
are to be voted on in meetings. However, all members of the 
association must be granted the chance to speak in meetings and 
thus propose matters, that they deem important for the 
association.

The board shall have the right to make official proposals that 
can be turned into binding policies of the association.

The process of discussing affairs in meetings can be defined 
further in the charter or another relevant binding document.

5 Dissolution

  14 § - Dissolving an association

The board of an association may terminate the legal existence of 
the association and initiate the dissolution of it, by having the 
decision approved by members of the association in a meeting.

The decision to dissolve an association shall not be enforced, if 
the association is under financial scrutiny by a court to pay 
fines or damages, or if the association is in debt by other 
means.

The decision to dissolve an association must rest for at least a 
month and all members must be granted the right to appeal the 
decision. Three appeals at most shall be allowed, and if all of 
them are overturned, the dissolution shall occure immediately.

  15 § - Legal existence

The dissolution of an association is legally enforced once the 
State Court has verified it. Once the association is dissolved, 
its member registry held by the Court shall be classified as 
secret, and it must not be accessible to former members of the 
association.

All assets of an association, at the moment of dissolution, shall 
be subject to private profit tax, as defined in Tax Law. Once 
taxed, the net assets shall be shared between the former members 
evenly. Such provisions shared to members shall be subject to 
personal tax, as defined in Tax Law.

6 Status and liabily

  16 § - The status of an association

A registered association shall be deemed a legal person as 
referred to in Verfassung § 73. Members of the association are 
not personally responsible for it, even as members of the board.

A registered association can be represented in courts and in 
other interactions with authorities, by the chairman of the 
board.

  17 § - Liability to pay damages

An association is liable for damages caused by its own actions. 
If the assets of the association are not sufficient to cover the 
damages, membership payments shall be diverted to cover them. If 
there are no enforced membership payments or financial 
requirements for membership, all members shall pay 100 € monthly 
to cover the damages, until at least half of them are covered.

